UNITED ST
ATES DISTRICT COURT  
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK  
___________________________________________ 
) 
SECURITIES AND  ) 
EXCHANGE COMMISSION, ) 
)  
Plaintiff,  )  Civil Action No. 22-cv-10501 
)  
v.     
 ) 
) JURY TRIAL DEMANDED  
SAMUEL BANKMAN- FRIED ,   ) 
) ) 
Defendant.    ) 
___________________________________________ ) 
COMPLAI
NT 
Plaintiff Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”), for its complaint 
against Defendant , Samuel Bankman -Fried  (“Bankman -Fried ”), alleges as follows: 
SUMMARY  
1. From at least May 2019 through November 2022, Bankman -Fried engaged in a
scheme to defraud equity investors in FTX Trading Ltd. (“FTX”), the crypto asset trading 
platform of which he was CEO and co- founder , at the same time that he was  also defrauding the 
platform’s customers.   Bankman -Fried raised more than $1.8 billion from investors, including 
U.S. investors, who bought an equity stake in FTX believing that FTX had appropriate controls and risk management measures.  Unbeknownst to those investors (and to FTX’s trading 
customers ), Bankman -Fried was orchestrating a massive, years -long fraud, diverting billions of 
dollars of the trading platform’ s customer funds for his own personal benefit and to help grow 
his crypto empire. 
2. Throughout this period, Bankman -Fried portrayed himself as a responsible leader
of the crypto  community.  He touted the importance of regulation and accountability.  He told the Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 1 of 282 public, including investors, that FTX was both innovative and responsible.  Customers around 
the world  believed his lies, and sent billions of dollars to FTX, believing their assets were secure 
on the FTX  trading platform.  But from the start, Bankman -Fried improperly diverted customer 
assets to his privately -held crypto hedge fund, Alameda Research LLC (“Alameda”), and then 
used those customer  funds to make undisclosed venture investments, lavish real estate purchases, 
and large  political donations.   
3. Bankman -Fried  hid all of this from FTX’s equity investors, including U.S. 
investors, from whom he sought to raise billions of dollars in additional funds .  He repeatedly  
cast FTX as an innovative and conservative trailblazer in the crypto markets.  He told  investors 
and prospective investors that FTX had top-notch, sophisticated automated risk measures in place to protect customer assets,  that those assets were safe and secure,  and that Alameda was 
just another platform  customer with no special privileges.  These statements were false and 
misleading.  In truth, Bankman -Fried had  exempted Alameda from the risk mitigation measures 
and had provided Alameda with significant special treatment on the FTX platform, including a 
virtually unlimited “line of credit” f unded by the platform’s customers.   
4. While he spent lavishly on office space and condominiums in The Bahamas, and 
sank billions of dollars of customer funds into speculative venture investments, Bankman- Fried’s 
house of cards began to crumble.  When prices  of crypto assets plummeted in May 2022, 
Alameda’s lenders demanded repayment on billions of dollars of loans.  Despite the fact that Alameda had, by this point, already taken  billions of dollars of FTX customer assets, it was 
unable to satisfy its loan obligations.  Bankman-Fried directed FTX to divert billions more in 
customer assets to Alameda to ensure that Alameda maintained its lending relationships, and that 
money could continue to flow in from lenders and other investors.   Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 2 of 283 5. But Bankman- Fried  did not stop there.  Even as it was increasingly clear that 
Alameda and FTX could not make customers whole, Bankman-Fried continued to 
misappropriate FTX customer funds.  Through the summer of 2022, he directed hundreds of 
millions more in FTX customer fu nds to Alameda, which he then used for additional venture 
investments and for “loans” to himself and other FTX executives.  All the while, he continued to 
make misleading statements to investors about FTX’s financial condition and risk management.  
Even in November 2022, faced with billions of dollars in customer withdrawal demands that FTX  could not fulfill, Bankman- Fried misled investors from whom he needed money to plug a 
multi- billion -dollar hole.  His  brazen , multi- year scheme finally came to an end when FTX, 
Alameda, and their tangled web of affiliated entities filed for bankruptcy on November 11, 2022. 
VIOLATIONS  
6. By engaging in the conduct set forth in this Complaint, Defendant ha s violated  
Section 17(a) of the Securities Act  of 1933 (“Securities Act”) [15 U.S.C. § 77q(a)] ; and Section 
10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) [15 U.S.C. § 78j(b)] and Rule 10b-5 thereunder [17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5].  
7. Unless Defendant is  permanently restrained and enjoined, he will continue to 
engage in the acts, practices, transactions and courses of business set forth in this Complaint and 
in acts, practices, transactions and courses of business of similar type and object. 
NATURE OF THE PROCEEDING AND RELIEF SOUGHT  
8. The Commis sion brings this action pursuant to the authority conferred upon it by 
Section 20(b) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. § 77t(b)] and Section 21(d) (1) of the Exchange 
Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d)(1)].  
9. The Commission seeks a final judgment:  (i) permanently enjo ining Defendant Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 3 of 284 from engaging in the acts, practices, transactions and courses of business alleged herein; 
(ii) ordering Defendant  to disgorge his ill-gotten gains and to pay prejudgment interest thereon 
pursuant to Section 21(d)(5) and (7) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d)(5) and (7)] ; (iii) 
imposing civil money penalties on Defendant pursuant to Section 20(d) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. § 77t(d)] and Section 21(d)(3) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(3)]; (iv) imposing an officer and director bar pursuant to Section 20(e) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. § 77t(e )] and Section 21(d)(2) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(2)]; (v) 
prohibiting Defendant from participating in the offer or sale of securities including crypto asset securities  pursuant to Section 21(d)(5) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(5)] ; and 
(vi) ordering such other and further relief the Court may find appropriate pursuant to Section 21(d)(5) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(5)]. 
JURISDICTION AND VENUE  
10. This Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to Sections 20(b), 20(d) and 
22 of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 77t(b), 77t(d), and 77v], and Sections 21(d), 21(e), and 27 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d), 78u(e), and 78aa].  In connection with the conduct alleged in this Complaint, Defendant, directly or indirectly, made use of the means or instruments of transportation or communication in, and the means or instrumentalities of, interstate commerce, or of the mails . 
11. Venue is proper in the Southern District of New York pursuant to Section 22(a) of 
the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. § 77v(a)], and Section 27 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78aa].  Among other acts, Defendant made false and misleading statements to investo rs residing in this 
District. Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 4 of 285 DEFENDANT  
12. Samuel Bankman- Fried  (“Bankman- Fried”) , age 30, was a co -founder and 
majority owner of FTX and, prior to stepping down on November 11, 2022, its CEO .  He was  
also a co -founder and majority owner of A lameda.  He resided in Hong Kong and T he Bahamas .   
RELEVANT ENTITIES  
13. FTX Trading Ltd . (d/b/a FTX.com) (“FTX”)  is an Antigua and Barbuda 
limited corporation.  FTX’s principal place of business was in Hong Kong and The Bahamas.  
FTX operated a global crypto asset  trading platform and began operations in or around May 
2019.  FTX was available to customers in most countries, but was not permitted to provide services to customers in the United States and several other countries.   FTX was founded by 
Bankman -Fried, Gary Wang (“Wang”), and Nishad Singh (“Singh”).  On or about November 11, 
2022, FT X and certain of its affiliates  filed Chapter 11 bankruptcy petitions in the United States 
Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware, Case No. 22-11068 (Bankr. Del.).    
14. Alameda Research LLC (“Alameda”)  is a Delaware company that had  
operations in the United States, Hong Kong, and The Bahamas.  Alameda was a quantitative 
trading f irm specializing in crypto assets (a “crypto hedge fund”).  Bankman- Fried and Wang co -
founded Alameda in or around October 2017, and , prior to Alameda’s bankruptcy filing, had 
been its sole equity owners, with Bankm an-Fried owning 90%, and Wang owning 10%, of the 
company.  Bankman -Fried was CEO of Alameda from its inception until in or around October 
2021, at which time Caroline Ellison  (“El lison”) and Sam Trabucco (“Trabu cco”) became co -
CEOs.  In or around August 2022, Ellison became the sole CEO.  Alameda has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware, Case No. 22 -
11068 (Bankr. Del.). Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 5 of 286 FACTS  
A. Bankman-Fried Created a Complex Web of Entities, with FTX and Alameda 
at Its Center.  
15. In or around October 2017, Bankman-Fried and Wang founded Alameda, a 
quantitative trading firm specializing in crypto assets.1  
16. At inception, Alameda was focused on arbitrage trading strategies, but went on to 
employ other strategies including market making , yield farming  (pooling of crypto assets in 
exchange for interest or other rewards ), and volatility tra ding.  Alameda also offered over -the-
counter trading services, and made and managed other debt and equity investments. 
17. At first, Bankman-Fried was responsible for trading operations, and Wang 
handled the engineering and programming functions.  Over time, A lameda hired additional 
employees, including Singh (in or around December 2017), Ellison (in or around March 2018), 
and Trabucco (in or around 2019).  By the end of 2021, Alameda had approximately 30 employees.  At times,  Alameda shared office space and em ployees with FTX.  
18. Bankman -Fried remained the ultimate decision -maker at Alameda, even after 
Ellison and Trabucco became co -CEOs in or around October 2021.  Bankman -Fried  directed 
investment and operational decisions, frequently communicated with Alameda employees, and had full access to Alameda’s records and databases.  
19. In or around 2018, Bankman- Fried began work on building a crypto  asset  trading 
platform.  Together with Wang and Singh, Bankman- Fried ultimately  founded FTX , which 
began operations in or around May 2019.   
                                                 
1 Crypto assets are unique digital assets maintained on a cryptographically -secured blockchain.  A blockchain or 
distributed ledger is a peer -to-peer database spread across a network of computers that records all transactions in 
theoretically unchangeable, digitally recorded data packages. The system relies on cryptographic techniques for 
secure recording of transactions.  Crypto  tokens may be traded on crypto asset  trading platforms in exchange for 
other crypto  assets or fiat currency (legal tender issued by a country).  Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 6 of 287 20. FTX offered its customers a number of services.  For example:  
a. FTX offered a “spot market,” a trading platform through which customers could trade crypto assets with other FTX customers in exchange for fiat currency ( i.e., currency such as U.S. Dollars) or other crypto assets.   
b. FTX  offered  “spot margin trading” services, which allowed FTX  
customers to trade using assets they did not have ( i.e., to trade “on 
margin ”) by posting collateral in their FTX accounts and borrowing crypto 
assets through the “spot market” on the FTX platform.  FTX also allowed customers to lend their crypto assets to other FTX customers who would then use those crypto assets to spot trade.   
c. FTX offered an off-platform (over- the-counter or “ OTC ”) portal  that 
enabled customers to connect and request quotes for spot crypto assets and to conduct trades. 
21. Bankman -Fried was the ultimate decision -maker at FTX  from the platform’s 
inception in or around May 2019 until he resigned as CEO on or about November 11, 2022 (“the Relevant Period”) .   
22. In or around January 2020, Bankman-Fried, Wang, and Singh founded FTX US, a 
crypto asset trading platform designed primarily for customers in the United States.
2 
23. Over time, Bankman -Fried expanded his holdings to include a number of 
companies focused on making and managing private (or “venture”) investments.  
24. This interconnected web of companies grew to include over 100 separate entities, 
with Bankman- Fried  at the top and Alameda, his crypto hedge fund, at the center. 
                                                 
2 FTX US  is the d/b/a for a subsidiary of West Realm Shires Inc.,  a separate legal entit y from FTX Trading Ltd. that 
provided different services .  FTX US’s conduct  is not the subject of the allegations in this  complaint.    Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 7 of 288 25. Throughout the Relevant Period, in multiple public statements, Bankman -Fried 
held himself out as a visionary leader in the crypto industry, and touted his efforts to create a 
regulated and thri ving crypto asset market.  He conducted an intensive public relations campaign 
to brand himself and his companies  as honest stewards of crypto. 
26. The reality was very different:  From the start, contrary to what FTX investors 
and trading customers were told, Bankman -Fried continually diverted FTX customer funds to 
Alameda and then used those funds to continue to grow his empire, using billions of dollars to 
make undisclosed private venture investments, political contributions, and real estate purchases. 
27. At th e same time, throughout the Relevant Period, Bankman -Fried solicited equity 
investors by touting FTX’s controls and risk management, ultimately raising at least $1.8 billion dollars from investors in exchange for various classes of stock in FTX through multiple fundraising rounds, including raising :  (1) approximately $8 million from the sale of shares of 
FTX Series A preferred stock, with fundraising completed in or around August 2019; 
(2) approximately $1 billion from the sale of shares of FTX Series B  preferred stock, with 
fundraising completed in or around July 2021; (3) approximately $420 million from the sale of  
shares of  FTX Series B -1 stock, with fundraising completed in or around October 2021; and (4) 
approximately $500 million from the sale of shares of FTX  Series C stock, with fundraising 
completed in or around January 2022.  Of this total, approximately  $1.1 billion was invested  in 
FTX  by approximately  90 investors based in the United States. 
28. For the entire span of the Relevant Period, while raising money from equity 
investors, B ankman -Fried , and those speaking at his direction and on his behalf, claimed in 
widely distributed public forums and directly to investors that :  FTX was a safe crypto asset 
trading platform; FTX had a comparative advantage due to its automated risk mitigation Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 8 of 289 procedures; and FTX and its customers were protected from other customers’ losses due to 
FTX’s automated liquidation process.  As discussed further herein, these statements and others 
were misleading in light o f Bankman -Fried’s  failure to disclose to FTX investors  the diversion of 
FTX customer funds to Alameda, which he then used for his own purposes, including loans to himself.  Similarly, Bankman -Fried’s statements concerning the separation of FTX and Alameda,  
made throughout the Relevant Period, were misleading because he did not disclose the special treatment afforded to Alameda on FTX, including its virtually  unlimited “line of credit” at FTX, 
its ability to carry a  negative balance in its FTX customer accou nt, and its exemption from 
FTX’s automated liquidation process —none of which any other customer of the platform 
enjoyed, but which changed the risk profile of  FTX . 
29. Bankman -Fried also misrepresented the risk profile of investing in FTX 
throughout the Releva nt Period by failing to disclose FTX’s exposure to Alameda and, relatedly, 
that the collateral Alameda deposited on FTX consisted largely of illiquid, FTX -affiliated tokens , 
including FTT.  In addition to these material omissions, Bankman- Fried  also made material 
misrepresentations to FTX investors about FTX’s risk management and its relationship with Alameda.   As detailed below, Bankman- Fried made these material misstatements  throughout the 
Relevant Period, and the entire time he was raising or attempting to raise funds for FTX— from 
the time FTX began operations in May 2019 through its ultimate demise in November 2022.   
B. Bankman- Fried
  Used Alameda to Carry Out His Fraudulent Scheme.  
30. Alameda (and its many subsidiaries) served a number of essential functions  in 
Bankman -Fried’s growing web of companies. For example, Alameda was the primary market 
maker on FTX at the time of FTX’s inception in 2019.  In this capacity, Alameda, at Bankman -
Fried’s direction, was tasked with creating liquidity on FTX to allow the platform  to function 
more efficiently.  Bankman -Fried also made venture investments through an Alameda Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 9 of 2810 subsidiary.  Most c rucially, Bankman -Fried used Alameda to house FTX customer assets and to 
deploy those assets, under Bankman-Fried’s direction, to help grow his empire.  
31. From the inception of FTX, Bankman-Fried diverted FTX customer funds to 
Alameda, and he continued to do so until FTX’s collapse in November 2022. 
32. Bankman -Fried diverted FTX customer funds to Alameda in essentially two 
ways:  (1) by direct ing FTX customers to deposit fiat currency ( e.g., U.S. Dollars) into bank 
accounts controlled by Alameda; and (2) by enabling Alameda to draw down from a virtually 
limitless “line of credit” at FTX, which was funded by FTX customer assets.   
33. As a result, there was no meaningful distinction between FTX customer funds and 
Alameda’s own funds.  Bankman- Fried thus gave Alameda carte blanche  to use FTX customer 
assets  for its own trading operations and for whatever other purposes Bankman- Fried saw fit.  In 
essence, Bankman -Fried placed billions of dollars of FTX customer funds into Alameda.  He 
then used Alameda as his personal piggy bank to buy luxury condominiums, support political 
campaigns, and make private investments, among other uses.  None of this was di sclosed to FTX 
equity investors or to the platform’s trading customers. 
i. FTX Customers Deposited Billions of Dollars into Alameda -Owned 
Bank Accounts, Which Alameda Spent on Its Own Trading Operations  
and to  Expand Bankman- Fried’s Empire.  
34. From the start of FTX’s operations in or around May 2019 until at least 2021, 
FTX  customers deposited fiat currency ( e.g., U.S. Dollars) into bank accounts controlled by 
Alameda.  Billions of dollars of FTX customer funds were so deposited into Alameda-controlled bank accounts. 
35. At least some of these bank accounts were not in Alameda’s name, but rather in 
the name of North Dimension Inc. (“North Dimension”), an Alameda subsidiary.  North Dimension’s website does not disclose any connection to Alameda.  Bankman- Fried directed Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 10 of 2811 FTX to have customers send  funds to North Dimension in an effort to hide the fact that the funds 
were being sent to an account controlled by Alameda. 
36. Alameda did not segregate these customer funds, but instead commingled them 
with its other assets, and used them indiscriminately to fund its trading operations and Bankman-
Fried’s other ventures. 
37. This multi- billion -dollar liability was reflected in an internal account in the FTX 
database that was not tied to Alameda but was instead called “fiat@ftx.com.”  Characterizing the 
amount of customer funds sent to Alameda as an internal FTX  account had the effect of 
concealing Alameda’s liability in FTX’s internal systems.  
38. In quarterly balance sheets that Alameda provided to its third -party  lenders, 
Alameda tracked this liability as a “loan,” but did not specify that the “loan” was from FTX.  Instead, Alameda combined this liability with loans it had received from third -party lenders. 
39. Alameda was not required to pay interest on the liability r eflected in the 
“fiat@ftx.com” account.  
40. In 2022, FTX began trying to separate Alameda’s portion of the liability in the 
“fiat@ftx.com” account from the portion that was attributable to FTX ( i.e., to separate out 
customer deposits sent to Alameda-controlled bank accounts from deposits sent to FTX-controlled bank accounts).  Alameda’s portion—which amounted to more than $8 billion in FTX customer assets that had been deposited into Alameda-controlled bank accounts—was initially moved to a different  account i n the FTX database.  However, because this change caused FTX’s 
internal systems to automatically charge Alameda interest on the more than $8 billion liability, Bankman -Fried directed that the Alameda liability be moved to an account that would not be 
charg ed interest.  This account was associated with an individual that had no apparent connection Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 11 of 2812 to Alameda.  As a result, this change had the effect of further concealing Alameda’s liability in 
FTX’s internal systems.  
ii. The FTX Platform, By Design, Granted Spec ial Treatment to Alameda, 
Including Features that Allowed Alameda to Divert FTX Customer 
Assets.  
41. In addition to receiving cash deposits directly from FTX customers, Alameda 
benefited from undisclosed features of the FTX platform, which allowed it to divert FTX 
customer assets.  For example:  
a. Negative Balance :  Alameda was able to maintain a negative balance in its 
customer account at FTX.  Bankman -Fried directed software code to be written in 
or around August 2019, and updated in or around May 2020, that ultimately 
allowed Alameda to maintain a negative balance in its account , untethered from 
any collateral requirements .  No other customer account at FTX was permitted to  
maintain a negative balance.   
b. Line of Credit : On multiple occasions, Bankman-Fried di rected FTX to increase 
the amount by which Alameda could maintain a negative balance in its account.  
In effect, this gave an unofficial “line of credit” to Alameda, since Alameda was 
able to draw down on its FTX customer account and use those funds—which were actually  the funds deposited by other FTX customers —for its own trading.  
At Bankman -Fried’s direction, Alameda’s “line of credit” was continually raised 
to the point where it grew to tens of billions of dollars and effectively became limitless .  No other FTX customer had a similar “line of credit.”  
c. Liquidation Exemption : In or around May 2020, Bankman- Fried directed that 
Alameda be exempted from the “auto -liquidation” feature of FTX’s spot margin 
trading services.  As a result , Alameda’s collateral co uld fall below the requisite Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 12 of 2813 margin levels without triggering the automatic liquidation of its account.  
Alameda was the only customer exempted from FTX’s automatic account liquidation.   
42. All of these special privileges were afforded to Alameda—and only Alameda—at 
Bankman -Fried’s direction, and all were hidden from investors.  These privileges permitted 
Alameda to draw on FTX customer assets to a virtually unlimited extent for its own uses.  
Because its own FTX trading account was able to maintain a negative balance of billions of dollars, unbacked by sufficient collateral, Alameda was able to divert billions of dollars in FTX customer assets.  Alameda did just that in 2022. 
iii. In 2022, Alameda Diverted Billions More in FTX Customer Assets. 
43. Starting in or around 2021, Bankman-Fried directed Alameda to borrow billions 
of dollars from third -party crypto asset lending firms in order to fund Bankman-Fried’s venture 
investments  and for his personal use.  Certain of these loans included provisions permitting the 
lenders to demand re -payment at any time.  
44. In or around May 2022, as prices of crypto assets were dropping precipitously, 
several of these lenders demanded re-payment from Alameda.  Because Alameda did not have 
sufficient assets to cover all of these obligations, Bankman-Fried directed Alameda to draw on its “line of credit” from FTX.  Billions of dollars of FTX customer funds were thus diverted to Alameda and used by Alameda to re -pay its third -party loan obligations. 
45. Because Alameda now had billions of dolla rs more in liability to FTX ( on top of 
the billions of dollars reflected in the fiat@ftx.com account)  Bankman -Fried —concerned that 
this enormous liability would alarm Alameda’s lenders —directed Alameda to hide this “line of 
credit” in Alameda’s balance sheet. 
46. Despite the fact that Alameda now owed FTX billions of dollars with no Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 13 of 2814 immediate prospects of raising capital to pay off its “line of credit,” Bankman -Fried continued to 
direct Alameda to draw on the “line of credit” in the summer of 2022.  The custome r funds 
diverted to Alameda were used , among other things, to pay hundreds of millions of dollars in 
“loans” to Bankman -Fried and other FTX executives, as well as hundreds of millions more to 
fund additional venture investments. 
iv. Bankman- Fried Assured Investors that FTX Customer Assets Were 
Secure, and Hid Alameda’s Close Relationship with FTX.  
47. Throughout the Relevant Period, Bankman -Fried was directly involved in 
soliciting potential investors in FTX.  Bankman -Fried met, and othe rwise communicated, with 
FTX investors including investors based in the United States.  Along with another FTX 
employee, Bankman -Fried was the point-person for investor relations at FTX. 
48. FTX’s Terms of Service, which were publicly available on FTX’s websit e and 
accessible to investors,  assured FTX customers that their assets were secure, providing :  “you 
control the Digital Assets held  in your Account ;” “[t]itle to your Digital Assets shall at all times 
remain with you and shall not transfer to FTX ;” and “n one of the digital assets in your account 
are the property of, or shall or may be loaned to, FTX Trading.”  The  Terms of Service further 
provided:  “Once we receive fiat currency  we may issue you an equivalent amount of electronic 
money (“E- Money”) …which represents the fiat currency that you have loaded” and “[y]ou may 
redeem all or part of any E -Money held in your Account at any time.”   
49. Similarly, FTX posted on its website a document entitled, “FTX’s Key Principles 
for Ensuring Investor Protections on Dig ital-Asset Platforms,” in which FTX represented that it 
“segregates customer assets from its own assets across our platforms.”  FTX further represented 
in that document that it maintained “liquid asse ts for customer withdrawals…[to] ensure a 
customer without losses can redeem its assets from the platform on demand.”    Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 14 of 2815 50. In addition to making this document available to the public on its website, FTX 
specifically provided it to potential investors, including a U.S. investor who had invested $35 
million in FTX’s Series B fundraising round in July 2021.  As described above, the se statements 
to the public, customers, and investors were false—FTX did not segregate its customer assets 
from its own assets, and, as events would later demonstrate, did not maintain liquidity to allow customer withdrawals on demand. 
51. FTX investors were provided with FTX’s audited financial statements, and FTX 
represented in its purchase agreements that those financial statements “fairly present in all material respects the financial co ndition and operating results of” FTX.  These audited financial 
statements, which do not include information about Alameda’s undocumented “line of credit” 
from FTX  and other information discussed herein, were, at the very least, materially misleading.  
Indeed, FTX’s current CEO has voiced “substantial concern as to the information presented in 
these audited financial statements.”  
52. Throughout the Relevant Period, Bankman -Fried made public statements assuring 
that customer assets were safe at FTX.  For exampl e, he stated in a tweet on or about June 27, 
2022:  “Backstopping customer assets should always be primary.  Everything else is secondary.”  He likewise tweeted on or about August 9, 2021:  “As always, our users’ funds and safety comes first.  We will alwa ys allow withdrawals (except in cases of suspected money 
laundering/theft/etc.). ” 
53. Bankman -Fried also told investors, and directed other FTX and Alameda 
employees to tell investors, that Alameda received no preferential treatment from FTX.  For example, Bankman -Fried told the Wall Street Journal in or around July 2022:  “There are no 
parties that have privileged access.”  Likewise, in a Bloomberg article published in or about Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 15 of 2816 September 2022, Bankman- Fried claimed that “Alameda is a wholly separate entity” than FTX. 
In the same article, Ellison is quoted as stating about Alameda:  “We’re at arm’s length and don’t 
get any different treatment from other market makers.”   Bankman -Fried made similar statements 
directly to investors. 
54. Bankman -Fried knew or recklessly disregarded that these statements were false 
and misleading because he was directly involved in establishing Alameda’s  preferential 
treatment . 
C. FTX Had Poor Controls and Deeply Inadequate Risk Management 
Procedures, in Stark Contrast to Bankman- Fried’s Claims that I t Was a 
Mature, Conservative Company. 
55.  From its inception, FTX had poor controls and fundamentally deficient risk 
management procedures.  Assets and liabilities of all forms were generally treated as 
interchangeable, and there were insufficient distinctions between the assignment of debts and credits to Alameda, FTX, and  executives , including Bankman -Fried, Wang, and Singh.  This 
reality was a sharp contrast to the image of FTX that Bankman -Fried consistently portrayed to 
the public and to investors—a mature company that managed funds and risk in a conservative, rigorous manner.  
56. FTX invested significant resources to develop and promote its brand as a 
trustworthy company.  For example, i n materials provided to one investor in or around June 
2022, FTX cultivated and promoted its reputation: 
FTX has an industry- leading brand , endorsed by some of the most 
trustworthy public figures, including Tom Brady, MLB, Gisele 
Bundchen, Steph Curry, and the Miami Heat, and backed by an industry-leading set of investors.  FTX has the cleanest brand in crypto.    
57. FTX also promoted itself as  a company that was willing to work collaboratively 
with regulators and lawmakers.  In the same materials, FTX claimed:  “FTX is also the only Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 16 of 2817 major digital asset venue to maintain positive, constructive relationships with regulators and 
lawmakers.”   
i. The FTX Automated Risk Engine  
58. Bankman -Fried repeatedly touted FTX ’s automated risk mitigation protocols —
which he called FTX’s  “risk engine”—to the public, and prospective investors, as a safe and 
reliable way for crypto asset trading platforms to manage risk.  Bankman -Fried promoted the 
concept of “24/7” automated risk monitoring as an innovative benefit of cryptocurrency markets, including at a hearing on or about December 8, 2021, to the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Financial Services, where Ban kman-Fried concluded his remarks by stating: 
And the last thing I will say is if you look at what precipitated 
some of the 2008 financial crisis, you will see a number of bilateral, bespoke, non-reported transactions happening between financial  counterpart ies, which then got  repackaged and 
releveraged again and again and again, such that no one knew how 
much risk was i n that system until it all fell apart.  If you compare 
that to what happened on FTX or other major cryptocurrencies in use today, there is co mplete transparency about the full open 
interest.  There is complete transparency about the positions that 
are held.  There is a robust, consistent risk framework applied.   
 59. In addition to generally promoting the benefits of automated risk engines, 
Bankman- Fried repeatedly claimed that FTX’s own risk engine was especially sophisticated and 
carefully calibrated.  In a submission to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, FTX 
touted its automated system, claiming that it calculated a customer’s margin leve l every 30 
seconds; and that if the collateral on deposit fell below the required margin level, FTX’s automated system would sell the customer’s portfolio assets until the collateral on deposit exceeded the required margin level .   
60. These statements were materially false and misleading because of a critical 
omission:  Bankman-Fried did not reveal that the automatic risk engine did not apply to the Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 17 of 2818 accounts o f its most important customer —Alameda.  As discussed above, one of the special 
benefits that Bankman -Fried afforded Alameda was that its collateral on deposit was allowed to 
fall below FTX’s required margin level without FTX liquidating any part of Alameda’s portfolio.  
61. Bankman -Fried thus misled FTX’s investors by representing that its risk engine 
would protect FTX custome r funds and would limit FTX’s exposure to any single customer, 
while failing to disclose that Bankman -Fried had personally directed that the engine not apply to 
one of its largest customers.   
62. As Bankman -Fried acknowledged in a network television interview  on or about 
December 1, 2022:  “I wasn’t even trying, like, I wasn’t spending any time or effort trying to 
manage risk on FTX.”  Bankman -Fried continued:  “What happened, happened—and, if I had 
been spending an hour a day thinking about risk management on FTX, I don’t think that would have happened.”  
ii. The Valuation of Alameda’s  Collateral 
63. The collateral that Alameda  had on deposit, consisting largely of enormous 
positions in illiquid crypto assets  issued by FTX and Bankman- Fried (including the “ FTT” token , 
the native crypto asset of FTX ), compounded the undisclosed risk to FTX’s investors.  Bankman-
Fried and FTX’s system valued this collateral at trading prices, but the collateral deposited by Alameda was not worth the value assigned to it.  Alameda and FTX collectively owned the majority of these tokens, and only a small portion of the FTX- affiliated tokens were in 
circulation.  As such, the tokens were illiquid, and, as Bankman-Fried knew or was reckless in not knowing, if Al ameda or FTX tried to sell Alameda’s holdings, market prices for the tokens 
would fall, thereby driving down the value of Alameda’s deposited collateral at FTX.  As a 
result, even if FTX had liquidated Alameda’s portfolio, the sales of those thinly traded tokens would not have generated sufficient funds to cover the amount Alameda borrowed from FTX.   Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 18 of 2819 64. Bankman -Fried was well aware of the impact of Alameda’s posit ions on FTX’s 
risk profile.  On or about October 12, 2022, for example, Bankman- Fried, in a series of tweets, 
analyzed the manipulation of a digital asset on an unrelated crypto platform.  In explaining what 
occurred, Bankman-Fried distinguished between an asset’s “current price” and its “fair price,” and recognized that “large positions – especially in illiquid tokens – can have a lot of impact.”  
Bankman -Fried asserted that FTX ’s risk engine  required customers to “fully collateralize a 
position” when the customer’s position is “large and illiquid enough.”  But Bankman -Fried 
knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that by not mitigating for the impact of large and illiquid tokens posted as collateral by Alameda, FTX was engaging in precisely the same conduct, and  
creating the same risk, that he was warning against.  Alameda was drawing dow n a virtually 
unlimited line of credit from FTX, collateralized by a large illiquid position.  
65. The reality of FTX’s exposure to the risk created by the valuation of Alameda’s 
positions stood in stark contrast to Bankman- Fried’s  assertions about risk management at FTX in 
his October 2022 Twitter analysis, in which he described FTX’s approach and claimed that constructing the rules for FTX’s risk engine in a manner that is “conservative, and handles apparent large moves gracefully ” is “probably the most important thi ng we do at FTX.”  
Bankman -Fried further claimed, contrasting FTX to the failed endeavor:  “There are a bunch of 
other risk engine protection and sanity checks, too, which would have caught something like this.” 
66. Not only did Bankman- Fried fail to tell investors that he had exempted Alameda 
from FTX’s risk engine, he also falsely told certain investors that FTX had no exposure to FTT 
at all.  In late summer 2021, for example, Bankman-Fried told a potential U.S. investor i n FTX’s 
series B fundraising round that FTX did not hold FTT and, consequently, the investor would not Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 19 of 2820 have any exposure to FTT.  The investor ultimately invested $30 million.  For the reasons 
described above, Bankman-Fried knew or was reckless in not knowing that at the time that he 
made those representations , they were false and misleading.  Specifically, Bankman -Fried knew 
or was reckless in not knowing that any investment in FTX carried significant exposure to FTT, as the token was, among other things, posted as collateral for billions of dollars that FTX had 
loaned to Alameda to engage in speculative investments.  
iii. Loans to FTX Executives and Real Estate Purchases 
67. The FTX funds transferred to Alameda were used not only for Alameda’s 
proprietary trading, but also to fund loans to FTX executives, including Bankman- Fried himself,  
and to fund personal real estate purchases.   Between March 2020 and September 2022, 
Bankman -Fried executed promissory notes for loans from Alameda totaling more than $1.338 
billion, including two instances in which Bankman- Fried was both the borrower in his individual 
capacity and the lender in his capacity as CEO of Alameda.   
68. Bankman -Fried also used commingled funds from Alameda to make large 
political donations and to purchase tens of millions of dollars in Bahamian real estate for himself, his parents, and other FTX executives.  Singh and Wang also borrowed $554 million and $224.7 
million, respectively, by executing promissory notes with Alameda in 2021 and 2022. 
69. The loans to Bankman-Fried and other individuals were poorly documented, and 
at times not documented at all.  Similarly, the record keeping regarding the purchase and 
ownership of real estate was poorly organized and documented.  Neither the fact of the loans and 
purchases, nor the poor documentation of significant company liabilities and expenditures, was disclosed to investors. Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 20 of 2821 D. Despite the Precarious Financial Position of FTX and Alameda, Bankman-
Fried Continued to Use FTX Customer Assets in the Summer of 2022, 
Including to Rescue Distressed Crypto Firms and to Further Mislead 
Investors.  
70. In May 2022, the crypto markets plummeted due to a significant loss in value of 
certain crypto assets and networks and the collateral effects on the interrelated markets.  
Bankman -Fried characterized FTX, and himself, as playing an important role in stabilizing the 
industry.  Bankman-Fried entered into a series of transactions with other members of the 
industry, providing credit to and taking over other failing firms.  On or about June 21, 2022, after giving  a $250 million line of revolving credit to BlockFi, a global crypto financial services 
company , to provide the company with access to capital to ease liquidity concerns, Bankman-
Fried tweeted:  “We take our duty seriously to protect the digital asset ecosystem and its 
customers.”  
71. At the same time that Bankman -Fried was p ositioning himself as a hero in the 
industry, however, the plummeting value of crypto assets was impacting Alameda, and as a result impacting FTX.  A s discussed above, a s a result of the same m arket conditions  impacting 
BlockFi’s liquidity, many of Alameda’s lenders demanded repayment of loans they had made to 
Alameda.   Bankman -Fried directed Alameda to  draw down billions of dollars from its “line of 
credit ” from FTX to repay some of its loans—money that came from FTX’s spot market funded 
by FTX customers.    
72. Thus, in the summer of 2022, Bankman-Fried knew, or was reckless in not 
knowing, that FTX was in a precarious financial condition.  However, he continued to spend hundreds of millions of dollars to purchase and support other crypto companies, and allowed Alameda to use FTX customer funds to repay its debts.  In addition, Bankman-Fried and other FTX executi ves continued to withdraw customer funds in the form of the poorly documented and Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 21 of 2822 undisclosed “loans” described above.  Specifically, on or about July 22, 2022, Bankman- Fried  
loaned himself $136 million.  When he made this loan, Bankman-Fried knew, or was reckless in 
not knowing, of the significant financial risk it posed to both Alameda and FTX.  Collectively, Bankman -Fried’s actions in the summer  of 2022 further imperiled FTX’ s financial condition.   
73. Despite FTX’s tenuous financial condition at this time, Bankman -Fried continued 
to present a false and misleading positive account of the company to investors.  In a meeting with FTX U.S. investors in September 2022, for example,  an FTX presentation included the claim 
that:  “Outside of BlockFi, we didn’t increase our exposure to crypto.”  This statement was false 
and misleading:  the customer funds that FTX diverted to Alameda, including customer funds that Alameda used to repay its lenders, were collateralized in part by Alameda’s FTT holdings.  
Bankman -Fried knew or was reckless in not knowing that, as a result, FTX’s exposure to crypto, 
including its own FTT token, increased substantially as Alameda increased its borrowing, backed by FTT as collateral, in the second quarter of 2022.   
74. In that same meeting with FTX investors, FTX also represented that certain 
investments did not involve the assets of FTX or its customers.  Contrary to that representation, two $100 million investments made by FTX’s affiliated investment vehicle, FTX Ventures Ltd., were funded with FTX customer funds that had been diverted to Alameda.   
E. Even as His Scheme Was Spiraling Out of Control, Bankman- Fried
  
Continued to Mislead Investors and the Public About FTX’s True Financial 
Condition.  
75. On or about November 2, 2022, CoinDesk, a crypto news website, published an 
article stating that based on its review of an Alameda balance sheet it had obtained, Alameda held a large position in FTT and other FTX-associated tokens.   
76. On or about November 6, 2022, the CEO of Binance, a crypto a sset trading 
platform, announced that “[d]ue to recent revelations that have came [sic] to light,” Binance Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 22 of 2823 would liquidate its FTT holdings.  Binance held FTT then valued at more than $500 million, 
which it had received from FTX as part of Bankman- Fried’s buyout of Binance’s equity in FTX 
as an early round investor.   
77. Binance’s  announcement caused many FTX customers to withdraw their funds 
from FTX.  Bankman-Fried knew or w as reckless in not knowing that given Alameda’s large 
FTT holdings, any further drop in the value of FTT threatened the solvency of FTX , given 
Alameda’s multi- billion -dollar liability .  To prevent a collapse in  the market price of FTT  that 
Binance’s sales might cause, Ellison tweeted an offer to buy Binance’s entire stake, for $22 per token (“@cz_binance if you’re looking to minimize the market impact on your FTT sales, Alameda will happily buy it all from you today at $22!”).    
78. Attempting to maintain public and investor confidence in FTX, Bankman- Fried 
tweeted on or about November 7, 2022:  “FTX is fine.  Assets are fine … FTX has enough to 
cover all client holdings.  We don’t invest client assets (even in treasuries).  We have been processing all withdrawals, and will continue to be ….”  That tweet was false and misleading, and Bankman- Fried later deleted it.  Bankman -Fried knew that FTX , at his direction, allowed 
Alameda to invest “client assets” and that Alameda had in fact done so, using FTX customer 
funds to make investments  far riskier than “treasuries.”    
79. The next day, November 8, 2022, FTX paused all customer withdrawals, and the 
price of FTT plummeted by approximately 80%.  Alameda’s collateral on deposit was worth far less than the amount Alameda had borrowed from FTX.  FTX was left with billions of dollars in 
effectively unrecoverable loans.     
80. Facing a solvency crisis, Bankman -Fried searched for investors who could 
provide additional funding.  On or about November 8, 2022, the CEO of Binance tweeted:  “ FTX Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 23 of 2824 asked for our help. There is a significant liquidity crunch. To protect users, we signed a non-
binding LOI, intending to fully acquire http://FTX.com and help cover the liquidity crunch. We will be conducting a full DD [due diligence] in the coming days.”   
81. It only took one day, however, for Binance to decide not to acquire FTX.  On or 
about November 9, Binance announced:  “As a result of corporate due diligence, as well as the latest news reports regarding mishandled customer funds and alleged US agency investigations, we have decided that we will not pursue the potential acquisition of http://FTX.com.” 
82. FTX customers withdrew approximately $5 billion from the platform  that day.   
83. At the same time, Bankman -Fried sought emergen cy funding from other 
investors, including U.S. investors, to cover a shortfall at FTX of approximately $8 billion.  As part of this effort, Bankman- Fried circulated a balance sheet to potential investors that listed a 
negative $8 billion entry labeled as a “hidden, poorly internally labeled ‘fiat@ account.’”  This entry was a reference to the above- described fiat@ftx.com account and reflected FTX customer  
funds deposited in Alameda’s bank accounts.   
84. During a meeting with Alameda employees  on or about November 9, 2022, 
Ellison admitted that she, Bankman-Fried, Wang, and Sing h were aware that FTX customer  
funds had been used by Alameda.   
85. On the morning of November 10, 2022, confronting the implosion of FTX and 
Alameda, Bankman -Fried tweeted:  “1) I’ m sorry.  That’s the biggest thing. I f*cked up, and 
should have done better.”
3  In the same tweet thread, Bankman -Fried announced that Alameda 
was “winding down trading” and soon would not trade on FTX at all.  Bankman- Fried 
maintained that “FTX International currently has a total market value of assets/collateral higher 
                                                 
3 Expletives have been redacted in part with asterisks.   Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 24 of 2825 than client deposits (moves with prices!).”  And he stated, among other things, that he was trying 
to “raise liquidity,” claiming “[t]here are a number of players who we are in talks with, LOIs [letters of intent], term sheets, etc.”   
86. The next day, November 11, 2022, Bankman -Fried resigned from FTX.  Shortly 
thereafter, FTX and approximately 100 affiliated entities, including FTX US, filed for Chapter 
11 bankruptcy protection.   
FIRST CLAIM FOR RELI EF 
FRAUD IN THE OFFER OR SALE OF SECURITIES  
(Violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act)  
87. The Commission re- alleges and incorporates by reference the allegations 
contained in paragraphs 1 through 86. 
88. By reason of the conduct described above, Defendant , in connection with the offer 
or sale of securities, by the use of the means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce or of the mails, directly or indirectly, acting knowingly, recklessly, or , as to (ii) and (iii),  negligently  
(i) employed devices, schemes, or artifices to defraud; (ii) obtained money or property by means 
of untrue statements of material facts and omissions to state material facts necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and (iii) engaged in acts, practices, or courses of business which operated or would 
operate as a fraud or deceit upon any persons, including purchasers or sellers of the securities.   
89. By reason of the conduct described above, Defendant  violated Securities Act 
Sections 17(a) [15 U.S.C. § 77q(a) ]. Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 25 of 2826 SECOND CLAIM FOR REL IEF 
FRAUD IN CONNECTION WITH THE PURCHASE OR SALE OF SECURITIES  
 (Violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 T hereunder)  
90. The Commission re- alleges and incorporates by reference the allegations 
contained in paragraphs 1 through 86. 
91. By reason of the conduct described above, Defendant, directly or indirectly, in 
connection with the purchase or sale of securities, by the use of the means or instrumentalities of 
interstate commerce or of the mails, or of any facility of any national securities exchange, knowingly or recklessly, (i) employed devices, schemes, or artifices to defraud; (ii) made untrue statements of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and (iii) engaged in acts, practices, or courses of business which operated or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon any persons, including purchasers of the securities. 
92. By reason of the conduct described above, Defendant violated Exchange Act 
Section 10(b) [15 U.S.C. § 78j(b)] and Rule 10b-5 [17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5] thereunder. 
PRAYER FOR RELIEF  
WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that this Court enter a Final 
Judgment: 
A. Permanently  restrain ing and enjoining Defendant, his officers, agents, servants, 
employees and attorneys, and those persons in active concert or participation with th em who 
receive actual notice of the injunction by personal service or  otherwise, and each of them, from 
violating Section 17(a) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. § 77q(a)], and  Section 10(b) of the 
Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78j(b)] and  Rule 10b-5 thereunder [17 C.F.R. 240.10b-5]; 
B. Ordering Defendant  pay disgorgement plus prejudgment interest of all ill-gotten Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 26 of 2827 gains obtained by reason of the unlawful conduct alleged in this Complaint, pursuant to 
Exchange Act Sections 21(d)(5) and 21(d)(7) [15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d)(5) and 78u(d)(7)]; 
C. Ordering Defendant  to pay civil monetary penalties pursuant to Section 20(d) of 
the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. § 77t(d)] and Section 21(d)(3) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 
§ 78u(d)(3)];  
D. Ordering Defendant barred from acting  as an officer or director pursuant to 
Section 20(e) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. § 77t(e )] and Section 21(d)(2) of the Exchange 
Act [15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(2)] ;  
E. Prohibiting Bankman- Fried from participating, directly or indirectly, including, 
but not limited to, through any entity controlled by him, in the issuance, purchase, offer, or sale of any securities, including crypto asset securities, provided, however, that such injunction shall not prevent Bankman-Fried from purchasing or selling securities, including crypto asset securities, for his own personal account; and  
F. Granting such other and further relief as this Court may deem just and proper.  Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 27 of 2828 JURY DEMAND  
The Commission demands trial by jury . 
DATED:  New York, New York  
December 13, 2022 
       Respectfully submitted,  
 
       _________________________________  
Jorge G. Tenreiro  
David L. Hirsch (not admitted in SDNY)   
Ladan F. Stewart  
Amy Harman Burkart  
David J. D’Addio  
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE  
  COMMISSION  
      100 Pearl Street , Suite 20-100 
New York, New York 10 004 
(212) 336-0153 (Stewart) Email: StewartLa@sec.gov  
 
Attorneys for the Plaintiff 
 Case 1:22-cv-10501   Document 1   Filed 12/13/22   Page 28 of 28